The Enlightenment was a period in the 17th and 18th centuries where thinkers began to question
traditional authority and emphasize reason, individual rights and equality. These ideas would
go on to shape the world as we know it today. Enlightenment thinkers supported the spread
of knowledge. Education was seen as the key to progress. Schools, universities and libraries
were established, making learning accessible to a wider audience.
Denis Diderot and Jean-Dalambierre's encyclopedia became a symbol of this movement, compiling
knowledge on a vast range of topics.
The Enlightenment influenced the arts, encouraging works that valued reason, order and balance.
Neoclassicism became a popular style in art characterized by a return to classical simplicity.
Jacques Louis David's Oath of the Harashi exemplifies this ideal, promoting civic duty and sacrifice.
The discovery flourished during the Enlightenment, thinkers like Antoine Lavoisier revolutionized
chemistry, developing the law of conservation of mass and a new chemical nomenclature.
The Enlightenment's ideals, education, reason, progress continue to shape our world from
scientific advancements to art, culture and beyond.
The legacy of the Enlightenment lives on, influencing how we learn, create and understand the world.
Its impact on society and culture is a testament to the power of knowledge and reason.